readme.md, before:

# Jekyll Img Tag

**Easy images for Jekyll.**

Jekyll Img Tag is a full featured liquid tag for working with images on your [Jekyll](http://jekyllrb.com) static site. It lets you add classes, alt text, or any other attribute to an image's HTML, and automatically generates resized images from a tag argument or some YAML configuration.

For responsive images in Jekyll, take a look at [Jekyll Picture Tag](https://github.com/robwierzbowski/jekyll-picture-tag).

## Installation

Jekyll Img Tag requires [Jekyll](http://jekyllrb.com) `>=1.0`, [Minimagick](https://github.com/minimagick/minimagick) `>=3.6`, and [Imagemagick](http://www.imagemagick.org/script/index.php). 

Once you have the requirements installed, copy img_tag.rb into your Jekyll _plugins folder.

## Usage

There are two parts to Jekyll Img Tag: 

- [Liquid Tag](#liquid-tag)
- [Configuration](#configuration)

### Liquid Tag

```
{% img [preset or WxH] path/to/img.jpg [attr="value"] %}
```

The tag takes a mix of user input and pointers to configuration settings. 

#### img

Tells Liquid this is a Jekyll Img Tag.

#### preset or WxH

Specify a [preset](#presets), custom image dimensions, or leave blank to use the image as is.

A preset will resize the image based on the preset's width and height properties, and add any preset attributes to the image's HTML.

Custom image dimensions can be set in the format `WIDTHxHEIGHT`. Each dimension can be either a number of pixels or the keyword `AUTO`. If one dimension is `AUTO` the image will scale proportionately. Two numbers will scale and crop.

#### path/to/img.jpg

The base image to use or resize.

#### attribute="value"

Optionally specify any number of HTML attributes. An attribute set in a tag will override the same attribute set in a preset.

### Configuration

Jekyll Img Tag stores configuration under an `img` key in your _config.yml.

**Example settings**

```yml
img:
  source: assets/images/_fullsize
  output: generated
  presets:
    users:
      attr:
        class: user-portrait
        itemprop: image
      width: 350
    half:
      width: 400
      height: 400
```

#### source

You can specify a source directory for your assets to make writing tags easier. All images you specify in the `{% img %}` tag will be relative to the `source` directory. 

For example, if `source` is set to `assets/images/_fullsize`, the tag `{% image stevenson/dream.jpg alt="A night scene" %}` will look for a file at `assets/images/_fullsize/stevenson/dream.jpg`.

Defaults to the site source directory.

#### output

Jekyll Img Tag generates resized images in an `output` directory in your compiled site. The organization of your `source` directory is maintained in the output directory. 

Defaults to `{compiled Jekyll site}/generated`.

*NOTE: `output` must be inside of a directory that contains other Jekyll assets or it will be erased.* This is a [known bug](https://github.com/mojombo/jekyll/issues/1297) in Jekyll.

#### presets

Presets are reusable styles you can reference in a Jekyll Img Tag. 

For example, a `users` preset might contain image dimensions, a class, and some metadata attributes to apply to all user pictures. If the design changes, you can easily change settings for every tag that uses the `users` preset across the site.

A preset name can't contain the `.`, `:`, or `/` characters.

#### attr

Each preset can have an optional list of HTML attributes associated with it. These attributes will be automatically inserted when the preset is used.

Set the value of standalone attributes to `nil`.

An attribute set in a tag will override the same attribute set in a preset.

#### width and height

The same as [width and height](#preset-or-wxh) in a tag, except that dimensions with an `AUTO` value are omitted. Set a single value to scale the image proportionately. Set both to scale and crop. Units are pixels.

## Managing Generated Images

Jekyll Img Tag generates resized images when you build your site. It uses a smart caching system to speed up site compilation, and re-uses images as much as possible.

Try to use a base image that is larger than the largest resized image you'll need. Jekyll Img Tag will warn you if a base image is too small, and won't upscale your images.

By specifying a `source` directory that is ignored by Jekyll you can prevent huge base images from being copied to the compiled site. For example, `source: assets/images/_fullsize` and `output: generated` will result in a compiled site that contains resized images but not the originals.

The `output` directory is never deleted by Jekyll. You may want to manually clean it every once in a while to remove unused images.

Resized images are great, but you should still always use a build process to optimize your site assets before deploying. If you're a cool kid, take a look at [Yeoman](http://yeoman.io/) and [generator-jekyllrb](https://github.com/robwierzbowski/generator-jekyllrb).

## Contribute

Report bugs and feature proposals in the [Github issue tracker](https://github.com/robwierzbowski/jekyll-img-tag/issues). In lieu of a formal styleguide, take care to maintain the existing coding style. 

## Release History
 
0.1.0, July 13, 2013: Initial release.

## License

[BSD-NEW](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BSD_License)

Commit message:

Revise readme to improve readability

readme.md, after:

# Jekyll Img Tag

**Easy images for Jekyll.**

Jekyll Img Tag is a full featured liquid tag for working with images on your [Jekyll](http://jekyllrb.com) static site. Use it to add classes, alt text, or any other attribute to an image's HTML, and automatically generate resized images from a tag argument or a little YAML configuration.

For responsive images in Jekyll, take a look at [Jekyll Picture Tag](https://github.com/robwierzbowski/jekyll-picture-tag).

## Installation

Jekyll Img Tag requires [Jekyll](http://jekyllrb.com) `>=1.0`, [Minimagick](https://github.com/minimagick/minimagick) `>=3.6`, and [Imagemagick](http://www.imagemagick.org/script/index.php). 

Once you have the requirements installed, copy img_tag.rb into your Jekyll _plugins folder.

## Usage

There are two parts to Jekyll Img Tag: 

- [Liquid Tag](#liquid-tag)
- [Configuration](#configuration)

### Liquid Tag

```
{% img [preset or WxH] path/to/img.jpg [attr="value"] %}
```

The tag takes a mix of user input and pointers to configuration settings. 

#### img

Tells Liquid this is a Jekyll Img Tag.

#### preset or WxH

Optionally specify a [preset](#presets) or image dimensions. Leave blank to use the image as is.

A preset will resize the image based on the preset's width and height properties, and add any preset attributes to the image's HTML.

Image dimensions follow the format `WIDTHxHEIGHT`. Each dimension can be either a number of pixels or the keyword `AUTO`. If one dimension is `AUTO` the image will scale proportionately. Two numbers will scale and crop.

#### path/to/img.jpg

The base image.

#### attribute="value"

Optionally specify any number of HTML attributes. An attribute set in a tag will override the same attribute set in a preset.

### Configuration

Jekyll Img Tag stores settings in an `img` key in your _config.yml.

**Example settings**

```yml
img:
  source: assets/images/_fullsize
  output: generated
  presets:
    users:
      attr:
        class: user-portrait
        itemprop: image
      width: 350
    half:
      width: 400
      height: 400
```

#### source

To make writing tags easier you can specify a source directory for your assets. Base images in the tag will be relative to the `source` directory. 

For example, if `source` is set to `assets/images/_fullsize`, the tag `{% image stevenson/dream.jpg alt="A night scene" %}` will look for a file at `assets/images/_fullsize/stevenson/dream.jpg`.

Defaults to the site source directory.

#### output

Jekyll Img Tag generates resized images to the `output` directory in your compiled site. The organization of your `source` directory is maintained in the output directory. 

Defaults to `{compiled Jekyll site}/generated`.

*NOTE: `output` must be in a directory that contains other files or it will be erased. This is a [known bug](https://github.com/mojombo/jekyll/issues/1297) in Jekyll.*

#### presets

Presets contain reusable settings for a Jekyll Img Tag. 

For example, a `users` preset might set image dimensions, a class, and some metadata attributes needed for all user pictures. If the design changes, you can edit the `users` preset and the new settings will apply to every tag that references it.

A preset name can't contain the `.`, `:`, or `/` characters.

#### attr

Optionally add a list of html attributes and values. They will be inserted when the preset is used.

Set the value of standalone attributes to `nil`.

An attribute set in a tag will override the same attribute set in a preset.

#### width and height

The same as [width and height](#preset-or-wxh) at the tag level, except that dimensions with an `AUTO` value are omitted. Set a single value to scale the image proportionately. Set both to scale and crop.

## Managing Generated Images

Jekyll Img Tag creates resized versions of your images when you build the site. It uses a smart caching system to speed up site compilation, and re-uses images as much as possible.

Try to use a base image that is larger than the largest resized image you need. Jekyll Img Tag will warn you if a base image is too small, and won't upscale images.

By specifying a `source` directory that is ignored by Jekyll you can prevent huge base images from being copied to the compiled site. For example, `source: assets/images/_fullsize` and `output: generated` will result in a compiled site that contains resized images but not the originals.

The `output` directory is never deleted by Jekyll. You may want to manually clean it every once in a while to remove unused images.

Resizing images is a good first step to improve performance, but you should still use a build process to optimize site assets before deploying. If you're a cool kid, take a look at [Yeoman](http://yeoman.io/) and [generator-jekyllrb](https://github.com/robwierzbowski/generator-jekyllrb).

## Contribute

Report bugs and feature proposals in the [Github issue tracker](https://github.com/robwierzbowski/jekyll-img-tag/issues). In lieu of a formal styleguide, take care to maintain the existing coding style. 

## Release History
 
0.1.0, July 13, 2013: Initial release.

## License

[BSD-NEW](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BSD_License)
